README.md, before:

# csv2parquet
Wrapper script to convert CSV files to Parquet format using the excellent [DuckDB](https://duckdb.org/)

Since DuckDB does such an excellent job this is just a simple wrapper in python so I don't forget the precise command to use.

Assumes a true CSV (comma separated, not tab or semicolon separated; although this could be made configurable), the parquet file is written out with ZSTD codec.

The read_csv_auto by duckdb does an excellent job of guessing the appropriate type for a column,
so no need sofar to provide some means of explicitly casting columns to a certain type.

DuckDB converts the file in streaming fashion, not by loading the entire file first. 
So converting large files should not pose any issues (short of bugs maybe).

## parquet_info
A short script that outputs some metadata and the schema of a parquet file.
Useful if you get a parquet file from somewhere and want to quickly check its contents.

If you have DuckDB at hand another quick solution (for showing schema information) is to execute these commands in DuckDB.

`create table test as select(*) from 'filename.parquet' limit 1;`<br/>
`describe table test;`

Commit message:

Updated section on using DuckDB CLI

README.md, after:

# csv2parquet


## csv2parquet
Wrapper script to convert CSV files to Parquet format using the excellent [DuckDB](https://duckdb.org/)

Since DuckDB does such an excellent job this is just a simple wrapper in python so I don't forget the precise command to use.

Assumes a true CSV (comma separated, not tab or semicolon separated; although this could be made configurable), the parquet file is written out with ZSTD codec.

The read_csv_auto by duckdb does an excellent job of guessing the appropriate type for a column,
so no need sofar to provide some means of explicitly casting columns to a certain type.

DuckDB converts the file in streaming fashion, not by loading the entire file first. 
So converting large files should not pose any issues (short of bugs maybe).

# parquet_info
A short script that outputs some metadata and the schema of a parquet file.
Useful if you get a parquet file from somewhere and want to quickly check its contents.

## Using DuckDB itself
If you have the DuckDB CLI at hand another quick solution 
(for showing the raw parquet schema information) is to execute this in DuckDB CLI:<br/>
`SELECT * FROM parquet_schema('filename.parquet')`<br/>

If you want to see what the parquet file will look like in DuckDB, use:<br/>
`create view test as select * from 'filename.parquet';`<br/>
`describe table test;`

This will also set a view on the parquet file which you can use as a regular table.
So to get the number of entries in the parquet file after this, simply do:<br/>
`select count(*) test;`
